sponsor.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Sponsor
permalink: /sponsor/
---

I’m an independent maintainer, so sponsors enable me to continue to provide features, bug fixes, **security** reports, triage, mentoring, and answering of questions.

If your business depends on the open source software that I maintain, consider sponsoring my work. A simple mental exercise is to consider how difficult or expensive it would be if I had to stop maintaining them, and you had to replace them or write your own. Then use that to determine how much to sponsor my work. Consider it a business risk mitigation.

Here are a few ways to do so:

- [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/seanmonstar)
- [Patreon](https://patreon.com/seanmonstar)

### Something More?

A retainer with me could provide your company with even more value, such as:

- Private office hours
- Private reviews
- Expert advice
- **Security support**

If you are interested in a deeper relationship, send me an email at [sean@seanmonstar.com](mailto:sean@seanmonstar.com).

Commit message:

add an excerpt for the sponsor page

sponsor.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Sponsor
permalink: /sponsor/
excerpt: I’m an independent OSS maintainer, so sponsors, support, and advising allow me to provide features, bug fixes, security reports, triage, and mentoring.
---
I’m an independent maintainer, so sponsors enable me to continue to provide features, bug fixes, **security** reports, triage, mentoring, and answering of questions.

If your business depends on the open source software that I maintain, consider sponsoring my work. A simple mental exercise is to consider how difficult or expensive it would be if I had to stop maintaining them, and you had to replace them or write your own. Then use that to determine how much to sponsor my work. Consider it a business risk mitigation.

Here are a few ways to do so:

- [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/seanmonstar)
- [Patreon](https://patreon.com/seanmonstar)

### Something More?

A retainer with me could provide your company with even more value, such as:

- Private office hours
- Private reviews
- Expert advice
- **Security support**

If you are interested in a deeper relationship, send me an email at [sean@seanmonstar.com](mailto:sean@seanmonstar.com).
