---
layout: post
title: warp v0.1.10
date: '2018-12-18T12:28:15-05:00'
tags:
- rust
- rust-lang
- http
- warp
- tower
tumblr_url: https://seanmonstar.com/post/181223452087/warp-v0110
---
[warp](https://seanmonstar.com/blog/2018-08-01-warp/) is a breakthrough server web framework for the Rust language.

Today sees the 11th release of [warp](https://github.com/seanmonstar/warp), v0.1.10! I wanted to show off the new features, and highlight some of the amazing work that has appeared since the initial announcement.

### v0.1.10

- **TLS Support** : there is now optional support TLS, enabled via the `tls` feature.
- **CORS** : There is a “wrapping” filter (warp’s idea of middleware) that can provide CORS to any existing `Filter`.
- Retrieving the remote address.
- **Websocket test helpers** : testing filters has always been easy thanks to `warp::test`, and now, `warp::test::ws` allows for easy testing of Websocket routes specifically.

### Previously

In case you missed it, some highlights of work that has landed before v0.1.10:

- Rejection system clarity: warp initially had a rejection system that would try to automatically translate rejections into HTTP responses. It wasn’t that scalable. The rejection system now is simply errors for why a request failed, and `Filter::recover` can be used to translate those into specific HTTP responses.
- `warp::fs` filters automatically support Conditional and Range requests, and try to use the OS blocksize for improved performance all around.
- Streaming request and response bodies.
- Support for custom transports besides the default TCP.
- And many smaller improvements and new filters.

### Next Focus: `Service`

When I [announced warp initially](https://seanmonstar.com/blog/2018-08-01-warp/), I had mentioned the `Service` trait, and the [tower-web](https://medium.com/@carllerche/tower-web-a-new-web-framework-for-rust-e2912856851b) framework. There are still plans to see warp and tower-web merge, and current efforts have been around solidifying the `Service` trait itself.

As a recap, the `Service` trait is essentially some extra pieces on top of an `async fn(Request) -> Response`. **Our aim is that `Service` and the [http crate](https://crates.io/crates/http) are the most basic interface that the ecosystem can gather behind.** Server implementations and frameworks could be compatible with each other, as long they both just knew about `Service` and `http`.<sup id="fnref:1"><a href="#fn:1" class="footnote-ref" role="doc-noteref">1</a></sup>

Being the common interface, it then becomes easier for frameworks and users to add in “tower middleware”, since a wrapped `Service` is still a `Service`. There are already several [tower](https://github.com/tower-rs/tower) middlewares that have been developed in support of [Linkerd2](https://linkerd.io/2).

We recently published a new release of `tower-service`. A prototype now exists for warp to be able to convert a `Filter` directly into an HTTP `Service`. From there, we could simply run it directly via `hyper::Server`. Other HTTP server implementations that supported `Service` could theoretically also just run it, and the user would still just deal with `warp` types.

The future of webdev in Rust looks bright!

* * *

1. 

This is similar to other languages, like WSGI, Rack, Servlet, WAI, and the like.&nbsp;[↩︎](#fnref:1)

