---
layout: post
title: http v0.2
date: '2019-12-02T14:05:38-08:00'
tags:
- rust
- rust-lang
- http
- programming
tumblr_url: https://seanmonstar.com/post/189439210962/http-v02
---
[A couple years ago](https://users.rust-lang.org/t/announcing-the-http-crate/12123), we released the beginning of the `http` crate. It’s purpose was to allow a common API for the ecosystem to interact with HTTP types, without those types referring to a specific implementation. We’ve seen great things sprout up since then!

Today marks the [0.2 release](https://github.com/hyperium/http/releases/tag/v0.2.0), a chance to make some minor breaking changes, with the hopes that this 0.2 version can soon just be promoted to 1.0. So, what has changed?

#### HTTP/3

A seemingly simple change is adding the `Version::HTTP_3` constant. However, we couldn’t add it in 0.1 due to an unexpected compiler behavior that allowed exhaustive matching on the `Version` constants even though the internal `enum` wasn’t exposed. This time, we’ve made sure to prevent exhaustive matches, so we can add new versions in the future.

#### Builders are now by-value

There are some pretty useful builders to construct a `Request`, `Response`, or `Uri`. In 0.1, they were “by-reference” builders, meaning that each builder method took `&mut self` and returned `&mut Builder`. Now, they take `self` and return `Builder`. There’s pros and cons for each pattern, but the weightiest one that made us change was the nature of “consuming” the builder once finished. To “build” a “by-ref” builder requires that either the data inside be cloned, or the builder be left in a “don’t build me again” state. This change now makes it clearer that a builder cannot used again, as it will now be a compiler error.

#### Reduced public dependencies

To help meet the goal of promoting to `http` v1.0, we’ve reduced the number of public dependencies to 0. There’s still a way to make use of `bytes` to reduce copies, but it’s now exposed in a way that there’s no API contract. This allows `http` to reach 1.0 even if `bytes` takes longer.

### Next

We expect the ecosystem to start updating to `http` 0.2 so you all can have the improvements as soon as possible. For example, [hyper](https://hyper.rs) should also be ready hopefully this week. Check the [changelog](https://github.com/hyperium/http/releases/tag/v0.2.0) for the full details!

