---
layout: post
title: 'hyper Roadmap 2025'
date: '2024-12-10T11:48:00'
tags:
- rust
- hyper
- open-source
- http
---
After a year since [hyper 1.0][v1], we're updating the ROADMAP. [hyper][] is an HTTP library written in Rust, used by many in production.

The purpose of the [ROADMAP][] is to highlight what is highest priority in order to continue orienting hyper towards its VISION.

It's based on interviewing our users to see make sure what the most important things are. Writing it down is a way of letting users know what's coming next.

### Open source is guiding

Open source is not a company, and so people can work on and contribute whatever they want.

But we _can_ guide contributions, by outlining what is most important for the project. Thus, a secondary purpose of the roadmap is to be a guide for those interested in contributing, but not sure what to do specifically.

### Focus Areas

The roadmap breaks down [four focus areas][ROADMAP]:

1. **Documentation**: Invest in docs, guides, and examples to ensure users can learn how to use hyper.
2. **hyper-util**: Provide new helpers for use with hyper, and stabilize and graduate some into hyper itself.
3. **HTTP/3**: Harden the `h3` crate ([reqwest](https://docs.rs/reqwest/latest/reqwest/#unstable-features) uses this already!), and use it to power `conn::http3` in hyper.
4. **Observability**: Improve visibility into hyper’s operations through stable support for events, tracing, and metrics.

### A living document

The ROADMAP is a living document. As we make progress, or as priorities change, the document can too. Proposals for additions and edits are always welcome.

### Contribute

If you've wanted to [get started contributing][CONTRIBUTING] to a Rust open source project, help us build hyper! Pick one of the focus areas that interest you, and reach out in an issue or Discord. We'd be thrilled to mentor you.

[hyper]: https://hyper.rs
[v1]: https://seanmonstar.com/blog/hyper-v1/
[ROADMAP]: https://github.com/hyperium/hyper/blob/master/docs/ROADMAP.md
[CONTRIBUTING]: https://github.com/hyperium/hyper/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
